# Frequently Asked Questions

##### **Q: Why does the console command IsDLLLoaded NVTF always report back >> 0?**
A: Install the DirectX Libraries from [here](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=8109). 
##### **Q: Why is my game moving too fast?**
A: Open Fallout New Vegas/Data/NVSE/plugins/NVTF.ini and make sure **iMaxFPSTolerance** is set to **500** (line 52). If that still doesn't fix it, verify that NVTF is actually working by using the console command IsDLLLoaded NVTF. 
##### **Q: Why didn't I get any DLC pop-ups/items after starting a new game?**
A: **Delay DLC Redux** prevents the DLC pop-ups from showing until you reach the starting location for the DLC. **SawyerBatty** distributes the crap pack items throughout the DC wasteland (or NV depending on where you chose to start). 
##### **Q: When installing multiple mods from the same page through MO2, should I select Merge, Rename, or Replace?**
A: It is generally safest & recommended to Rename, but please review the **Mod Installation Advice** section from the [MO2](./mo2.html#advice) page. 
##### **Q: Mod Organizer 2 is reporting that mods in the left pane have overwritten loose files. Is this okay?**
A: Yes, as long as your mods in the **left** pane of MO2 are in the exact order as they appear in the guide, these overwrites are intentional and safe. 
##### **Q: Mod Organizer 2 is reporting that there are files in my overwrite folder. Is this okay?**
A: Yes, generally these files are harmless. They are usually files generated by mods (like configuration INI files) or by programs ran through MO2. These files will still be loaded fine in-game, and will be prioritized as if they are the last mod in the **left** pane of MO2. Usually, you can just leave these files in the overwrite and ignore the warning. If you like, you can drag the files out of the Overwrite window into their respective mod folders in MO2's left pane. 
##### **Q: Why do I get a Application Load Error 5:0000065434 message when I try to launch the game?**
A: Run your game directly through Steam once. You may also need to restart Steam and/or Mod Organizer 2. If that still doesn't work, place a copy of your **Steam.exe** (a **copy**, not a shortcut) into the game's **Root** folder. 
##### **Q: How do I fix NPCs "bouncing" when playing above 60 FPS?**
1. Click the  button at the top of MO2 and select **INI Editor**.
1. Select the **FalloutCustom.ini** tab.
1. Make sure you are in the **FalloutCustom.ini** tab and NOT the **Custom.ini** tab.
1. Paste in the following:

1. Save and exit
##### **Q: What steps do I have to take to run the game in an ultrawide resolution?**
1. Click the  button at the top of MO2 and select **INI Editor**.
1. Select the **FalloutCustom.ini** tab.
1. Make sure you are in the **FalloutCustom.ini** tab and NOT the **Custom.ini** tab.
1. Paste in the following:

Change the values to whatever resolution you want to play in.

1. Save and exit.
1. Starting from the in-game pause menu click **Settings/Tweaks** and search for ultrawide.
1. Enable the Ultrawide Support tweak that appears then restart the game so it takes effect.
##### **Q: What is "Fonfig" supposed to mean?**
A: It's short for "Fonfiguration", obviously.